================
Learning Process
================

.. index::
   single: Learning Process

.. contents::
    :backlinks: top

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   HackTheBox/HackTheBox
   PortswiggerWebSecurityAcademy/PortswiggerWebSecurityAcademy
   Trainning/Trainning


####



Some of the various stages of the learning process :

    * Mindset
    * Learning Efficiency and learning types
    * Documentation
    * Organization
    * Focus
    * Attention
    * Dealing with Frustration

####

-------------------------------------------------------------------
The Way of Thinking, Thinking outside the box and the Occam's Razor
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The process of "learning how to learn" is not easy. Most people have never truly learned how to
learn effectively.

For example, in school, our teachers discussed some topics with our class. First, teachers show us
just one way to solve a problem. They explained one way to solve the problem, and after that, they
gave us exercises to practice further.

**Thinking outside the box** helps us cross imaginary boundaries and thus to access possibilities
and options that were not recognizable to us at first. Thereby, we will encounter many options, and
the whole way to the solution of a problem can become very complicated very fast. The Occam's Razor
principle is beneficial for simplifying these circumstances.

    .. note:: 
        
        **Accam's razor**

        Occam's Razor is one of the central principles of modern scientific theory.
        
        :Definition:

            The principle is based on the following definition:

            The most straightforward theory is preferable to all others of several sufficient
            possible explanations for the same state of facts. In other words: The simplest
            explanation is always the most probable.

Occam's Razor in Practice
=========================

    .. important:: 
        
        Using Occam's Razor in theory sounds easier than it is in practice.


We can state that the simplest explanation is the most probable. However, the fact is that apart
from that, it is not always so. We must also distinguish between the individual details and
mechanisms and the general picture or concept.

In our learning phase (and thus also during our penetration tests against companies), we will
encounter many situations in which we learn something new. However, it is crucial to understand the
overall concept rather than the individual steps involved. For example, once we are familiar with
SQL injection and how it occurs, we may find the individual steps difficult at first. However, once
we understand the overall concept, it will be easy for us to discover when a web application is
vulnerable to SQL injections.

If we have already dealt with SQL injections and know how they can look, we also understand that the
individual steps to detect and exploit them can be very complicated. Nevertheless, what remains the
same is the concept. **The concept is the main focus when learning new topics**.

    .. note:: 
        
        **The simpliest explanation for the best approach to penetration testing is that we work
        with the information we can get**

        The unique techniques of how we get and use this information are, individual steps followed
        and not the whole concept.

The same applies to most exploitation attacks and the individual steps for them. Once we understand
the overall picture, adapting to the given situations and conditions is much easier.

However, suppose we have only learned the individual steps. In that case, we will have difficulty
adapting them to new situations because we do not understand their impact on the systems and their
applications.

Overcomplicate things
=====================

Children can develop a talent much more effortlessly than adults. This is because they have not yet
developed complicated thinking and do not have complex hurdles to overcome. In other words, children
typically do not overcomplicate things like adults do.


####

--------
Weblinks
--------

.. target-notes::